The President: Hi
everybody, this week,
we remained focused on
our fight against Ebola.
In Dallas, dozens of family,
friends and others who had
been in close contact with the
first patient, Mr. Duncan,
were declared free of
Ebola-a reminder that
this disease is actually
very hard to catch.
Across Dallas, others being
monitored-including health care
workers who were most
at risk-were also
declared Ebola-free.
Two Americans-patients in
Georgia and Nebraska who
contracted the disease in West
Africa-recovered and were
released from the hospital.
The first of the two Dallas
nurses who were diagnosed-Nina
Pham-was declared Ebola free,
and yesterday I was proud to
welcome her to the Oval Office
and give her a big hug.
The other nurse-Amber
Vinson-continues
to improve as well.
And in Africa, the countries
of Senegal and Nigeria
were declared free of
Ebola-a reminder that
this disease can be
contained and defeated.
In New York City, medical
personnel moved quickly
to isolate and care for the
patient there-a doctor
who recently returned
from West Africa.
The city and state of New York
have strong public health
systems, and they've been
preparing for this possibility.
Because of the steps we've
taken in recent weeks,
our CDC experts were
already at the hospital,
helping staff prepare for
this kind of situation.
Before the patient
was even diagnosed,
we deployed one of our new
CDC rapid response teams.
And I've assured Governor Cuomo
and Mayor de Blasio that they'll
have all the federal support
they need as they go forward.
More broadly, this week we
continued to step up our efforts
across the country.
New CDC guidelines and outreach
is helping hospitals improve
training and protect their
health care workers.
The Defense Department's
new team of doctors,
nurses and trainers will respond
quickly if called upon to help.
New travel measures are now
directing all travelers from
the three affected countries in
West Africa into five
U.S. airports where we're
conducting additional screening.
Starting this week, these
travelers will be required
to report their temperatures
and any symptoms on a daily
basis-for 21 days until we're
confident they don't have Ebola.
Here at the White House, my new
Ebola response coordinator
is working to ensure a
seamless response across
the federal government.
And we have been examining the
protocols for protecting our
brave health care workers,
and, guided by the science,
we'll continue to work with
state and local officials
to take the necessary steps to
ensure the safety and health
of the American people.
In closing, I want to leave
you with some basic facts.
First, you cannot
get Ebola easily.
You can't get it through
casual contact with someone.
Remember, down in Dallas, even
Mr. Duncan's family-who lived
with him and helped care for
him-even they did not get Ebola.
The only way you can get this
disease is by coming into direct
contact with the bodily fluids
of someone with symptoms.
That's the science.
Those are the facts.
Sadly, Mr. Duncan
did not survive,
and we continue to keep
his family in our prayers.
At the same time, it's important
to remember that of the seven
Americans treated so far for
Ebola-the five who contracted
it in West Africa, plus the
two nurses from Dallas-all
seven have survived.
Let me say that again-seven
Americans treated;
all seven survived.
I've had two of them
in the Oval Office.
And now we're focused on
making sure the patient
in New York receives
the best care as well.
Here's the bottom line.
Patients can beat
this disease.
And we can beat
But we have to
stay vigilant.
We have to work together
at every level-federal,
state and local.
And we have to keep leading
the global response,
because the best way
to stop this disease,
the best way to
keep Americans safe,
is to stop it at its
source-in West Africa.
And we have to be guided by the
science-we have to be guided
by the facts, not fear.
Yesterday, New Yorkers
showed us the way.
They did what they do every
day-jumping on buses,
riding the subway, crowding into
elevators, heading into work,
gathering in parks.
That spirit-that determination
to carry on-is part of what
makes New York one of the
great cities in the world.
And that's the spirit all of us
can draw upon, as Americans,
as we meet this
challenge together.